I try to avoid speed duels on the freeway but the curious thing is

that all my speeding tickets are when I am quietly driving along on

my
own.

when I am in a high speed duel, darting in and out of lanes

at near 100 m.p.h.
the police are never
about.

when I get tagged for speeding it is for cruising along, day-dreaming, at a mere 70 m.p.h.



I received 3 such nonsensical tickets in 3 weeks so I laid low for some time—2 years, in fact, but today out there
there was a fellow in a bright red car, I have no idea what model or kind
and I have no idea of how it all started but I believe that
I started it:
I was in the fast lane going about 70

and I caught the flash of bright red in my rear view and as he swung out to pass me on the right he was doing 75
and there was time for him to pass
then cut into the fast lane ahead of me

but something made me hit the throttle and cut him off

locking him in behind an old lady with a CHRIST SAVES bumper sticker.

this seemed to piss him no end

and next I knew he had swung over on my bumper, so close that his windshield and my taillights seemed one.

this pissed me no end and I was being blocked by a green Volks directly ahead

but I cut right through an opening and shot ahead.

bright red went wild, spotted the far lane open, roared over and gunned it along.



after that, it was just me and bright red

jockeying for spots.

he would garner a lead, then with a crazy gamble of lane change I would regain the lead.

during this duel my destination was forgotten and I'm sure his was too.

watching him, I couldn't help but admire his driving skill; he took a few more chances than I but I had a little bit the better machine
so it
just about evened out.

then

suddenly
we were alone: a freak break in the traffic had set us free together and we really opened
up.

he had a short lead but my machine slowly gained; I inched up near him,
then I was at his side and I couldn't help but

look over.

he was a young Japanese-American, maybe 18, 19

and I looked at him and
laughed.
I saw him check me out.
he saw a 70 year old white man
with a face like
Frankenstein.

the young man took his foot off the throttle and dropped back.

I let him go.

I turned the radio

on.

I was 18 miles past my destination but it

didn't matter.

it was a beautiful sunny day.
