I am spooked by the bluebells and the silent harp while passing down Western Avenue and seeing the tombstones placed flat instead of upright upon the cemetery lawn: our decent modernity not wanting to upset us with Finalities while we pay 22% interest on our credit cards.

I follow the street on down

feeling wonderful that I do not appear to be lost.
we need our landmarks (like cemeteries), we need our liquor and our liabilities.

we need so many things we think we do not need.

strangely then, as I drive south, I begin thinking about

THE WORLD IS SQUARE, INC., an institution which meets and discusses the fact that: the world is square and the North Pole is at the CENTER of the SQUARE and holds everything from sliding over the edge and that the EDGE is really a WALL OF

DARKNESS AND ICE and that nothing or nobody can go through and that

when we THINK we are circling the globe we are only CIRCLING the SQUARE, finally arriving back where we began.

I wait at a signal, the light turns green and I move on thinking, well, maybe the planets we believe are round are illusions, and the moon and the sun, they are really square too.

well, you can't rule anything out; I vote for round but I still realize that it wasn't too long ago when EVERYBODY thought the answer was SQUARE.


I stop at another signal, wait, while being held from falling

over the EDGE OF DARKNESS AND ICE by the North Pole standing in the

CENTER of the SQUARE.

the light changes, I drive on, turn left, go a few blocks, turn right, go a block or so, turn left, go a block, turn right, then a left and I am at my driveway, turn in, drive slowly up to the garage

past the tangerine tree and the tangerines are round but the garage door is square and I am still spooked by the bluebells and the silent harp cut the engine
get out
stand up
still alive.

I move along the walk.

god, things are getting interesting again: they say there are
bottomless craters at the North Pole and deep in the earth live

Creatures from Outer Space
down there

in a marvelous, beautiful and peaceful Kingdom, I move toward the door, make ready to open it, not at all sure of what will be waiting on the other side—there is always this gnarling apprehension

generally but not always warranted, and as the North Pole holds me from falling off either the Curve or the Edge

I push open the wooden wall and enter, ready and not ready enough.
