as a very young man I divided an equal amount of time between the bars and the libraries; how I managed to provide for

my other ordinary needs is the puzzle; well, I simply didn't bother too much with that—

if I had a book or a drink then I didn't think too much of other things—fools create their own paradise.

in the bars, I thought I was a tough, I broke things, fought other men, etc.

in the libraries it was another matter: I was quiet, went from room to room, didn't so much read entire books as parts of them: medicine, geology, literature and philosophy. psychology, math, history, other things, put me off. with music I was more interested in the music and in the lives of the composers than in the technical aspects…

however, it was with the philosophers that I felt a brotherhood:

Schopenhauer and Nietzsche, even old hard-to-read Kant; I found Santayana, who was very popular at the time, to be limp and a bore; Hegel you really had to dig for, especially with a hangover; there are many I read who I have forgotten, perhaps properly so, but I remember one fellow who wrote an entire book in which he proved that the moon was not there and he did it so well that afterwards you thought, he's absolutely right, the moon is not there.
how the hell is a young man going to deign to work an 8 hour day when the moon isn't even there? what else
might be missing?

and

I didn't like literature so much as I did the literary critics; they were real pricks, those guys; they used fine language, beautiful in its way, to call other critics, other writers, assholes. they perked me up.

but it was the philosophers who satisfied that need

that lurked somewhere within my confused skull: wading through their excesses and their clotted vocabulary
they still often
stunned
leaped out

with a flaming gambling statement that appeared to be absolute truth or damned near absolute truth,

and this certainty was what I was searching for in a daily life that seemed more like a piece of cardboard.

what great fellows those old dogs were, they got me past days like razors and nights full of rats; and women bargaining like auctioneers from hell.

my brothers, the philosophers, they spoke to me unlike anybody on the streets or anywhere else; they filled an immense void.
such good boys, ah, such good
boys!

yes, the libraries helped; in my other temple, the bars, it was another matter, more simplistic, the language and the way was different…


library days, bar nights.

the nights were alike,

there's some fellow sitting nearby, maybe not a bad sort, but for me he doesn't shine right,
there's a gruesome deadness there—I think of my father, of schoolteachers, of faces on coins and bills, of dreams about murderers with dull eyes; well,

somehow this fellow and I get to exchanging glances, a fury slowly begins to gather: we are enemies, cat and dog, priest and atheist, fire and water; tension builds, block piled upon block, waiting for the crash; our hands fold and unfold, we drink, now, finally with a purpose:

his face turns to me:

"sumpin' ya don't like, buddy?"

"yeah. you."

"wanna do sumpin' about it?"

"certainly."

we finish our drinks, rise, move to the back of the bar, out into the alley; we turn, face each other.

I say to him, "there's nothing but space between us. you

care to close that
space?"

he rushes toward me and somehow it's a part of the part of the part.
