you take a stool, unfold the paper, the waitress brings the java, you order bacon and

everybody in there is old and bent and poor, they are like the oldest people in the universe having breakfast

and it's dark in there like the inside of a glove and some of the patrons speak to each other,

only their voices are broken and scratched and they speak

of simple things,
so simple

you think that they are joking but they hulk over their food, unsmiling… "Casmir died, he wore his green shoes…" "yeh."

strange place there, no sadness, no rancor, an overhead

fan turns slowly, one of the blades bent a bit, it
clicks against the grate: "a-flick, a-flick, a-flick…"
nobody
notices.

my food arrives, it is hot and clean, but never coffee

like that (the worst), it is like drinking the water left in muddy footprints.

the old waitress is a dear, dressed in faded pink, she can hardly walk, she's
sans everything.

"do you really love me?" she asks the young Mexican fry cook. "why?"

"because I can't help it," he says, running the spatula under a mass of hash browns, turning them.
I eat, peruse the newspaper, general idea I get is
that the world is not yet about to end but a
recession is to come creeping in wearing
faded tennis
shoes.

an old man looms in the doorway, he's big in all the wrong ways and shuts out what little light there is.

"hey, anybody seen Vern?"

there is no answer, the old man

waits, he waits a good minute and a half, then he lets out a little fart.
I can hear it, everybody can. uh
huh.

he reaches up, scratches behind his left ear, then backs out of

the doorway and is
gone.

"that ratfucker," somebody says, "zinched little Laura out of her dowry."

the last bit of toast sogs down my throat, I wipe my mouth, leave

the tip, rise to pay the
bill.

the cash register is the old fashioned kind where the drawer jumps out when you hit the keys.

I was the last person to sit down to eat, I am the first to leave, the others still sit

fiddling with their food, fighting the coffee down

as I get to my car I start the engine, think, nice place, rather like an accidental love, maybe I'll go back there once or

twice.

then I back out, swing around and enter the

real world
again.
