long gone along the way, faces

grey and white and black and brown, and eyes, all color of eyes.

eyes are odd, I have lived with a woman, at least one, where the sex was fair, the conversation passable and sometimes there was even a seeming love

but then I suddenly noticed the eyes, saw there the dark smeared walls of a stinking hell.

(of course, I am pleased that I do not often have to see my own eyes, lips, hair, ears, so forth—
I avoid the mirror with a studied
regularity.)

long gone along the way, he had a face like a mole pie, fat and unshivering and he walked up to me in the railroad yards, I was beastly sick

and that flesh plate shook my innards, my psycho-kid insides as he said, "I'm waiting on my pay-check,

I been squeezing this nickel so hard that the buffalo is screaming." he showed me the nickel.
tough, but no beer, I walked away from him,
my face white like a bright headlight, I walked

away from him and toward the faces of the nonwhites

who
hated me with a natural
ease.

long gone along the way, the landladies' faces, doomed, powdered, old lilac faces, old lovely dolls with husbands so long gone, the agony diminished but still there as I followed them up stairways nearly a century old to some cubicle of a room and I always told them, "ah, a very nice room…"; to pay

then, close the door, undress, lay upon that bed and turn out the light (it was always early evening) and then soon to hear the same sound: the scurry of my old friends: either the roaches or the mice or the rats.

long gone along the way, now I wonder about Inez

and Irene and their sky-blue eyes and their wonderful

legs and breasts
but mostly
their faces, faces carved out of a marble that
sometimes the gods
bestow and

Inez and Irene sat in front of me in class and learned about algebra, the shortest distance between two points, the Treaty of Versailles, about Attila the Hun and etc.
and I watched them and wondered what they were
thinking?
nothing much,
probably.
and I wonder where they are tonight

with their faces these 5 decades and 2 years later?

the skin which covers the bone, the eyes that smile; quick, turn out the light, let the dark dance…

the most beautiful face I ever saw was that of a paperman, a newsboy, the old fellow so long gone down the way
who sat at a stand at Beverly and Vermont,

his head, his face looked like what they

called him: The Frog Man. I saw him
often but we seldom spoke and
The Frog Man died suddenly
and was gone
but I will always remember him
and one night
I came out of a nearby bar,
he was there at his stand and

he looked at me and said, "you and I, we know the same things."

I nodded, put both thumbs up, and that big Frog

face, the big Frog head lifted in the moonlight
and began laughing the most terrible and real
laughter I have ever
heard.

long gone along the way
